feat(m&b): Tax codes (#5752)
Kong/developer.konghq.com: app/metering-and-billing/tax-codes.md

---
title: "Tax codes"
content_type: reference
description: "Learn how tax codes work in {{site.konnect_short_name}} {{site.metering_and_billing}}, including tax behavior, organization defaults, and the fallback chain."
layout: reference
products:
  - metering-and-billing
tools:
  - konnect-api
works_on:
  - konnect
breadcrumbs:
  - /metering-and-billing/
related_resources:
  - text: "Billing and invoicing"
    url: /metering-and-billing/billing-invoicing/
  - text: "Configure tax codes"
    url: /how-to/configure-metering-and-billing-tax-codes/
  - text: "Stripe Tax Code reference"
    url: https://docs.stripe.com/tax/tax-codes
---

Tax codes classify goods and services for tax purposes.
{{site.konnect_short_name}} {{site.metering_and_billing}} uses them to pass structured tax information to payment providers so that tax is calculated correctly on invoices.

## What is a tax code?

A tax code is a named, reusable object in your organization that maps a product category to provider-specific identifiers.
Each tax code has:

> * A human-readable key and name (for example, key: `saas-software`, name: `SaaS Software`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A human-readable key and name (for example, key: `saas_software`, name: `SaaS Software`).
```

That was a typo in the documentation as well. Sorry for that!

* An optional description.
* One or more app mappings, which are the provider-specific code strings for each connected payment app.

> For Stripe, app mapping values follow Stripe's tax code format: `txcd_XXXXXXXX` (for example, `txcd_10000000`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you've [integrated Stripe](/metering-and-billing/stripe-integration/) with {{site.metering_and_billing}}, app mapping values follow Stripe's tax code format: `txcd_XXXXXXXX` (for example, `txcd_10000000`).
```

## Tax behavior

Every taxable object carries a tax behavior that controls how the listed price is interpreted:

<!--vale off-->
{% table %}
columns:
  - title: Value
    key: value
  - title: Meaning
    key: meaning
rows:
  - value: "`exclusive`"
    meaning: Tax is added on top of the stated price.
  - value: "`inclusive`"
    meaning: Tax is included in the stated price.
  - value: "`empty`"
    meaning: Falls back to the provider's default behavior.
{% endtable %}
<!--vale on-->

## Default organization tax codes

Default organization tax codes act as a safety net, guaranteeing that every taxable item has a tax code even when there's no specific setting configured.
Tax code defaults are defined once per organization and apply across all billing profiles, customers, plans, and invoices.

{{site.metering_and_billing}} sets two defaults when your organization is created:

<!--vale off-->
{% table %}
columns:
  - title: Default
    key: default
  - title: Applies to
    key: applies_to
  - title: Used when
    key: used_when
  - title: Name
    key: name
  - title: Value
    key: value
rows:
  - default: Invoicing default
    applies_to: Flat-fee charges and usage-based charges

>     used_when: The charge has no tax code from any more specific layer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    used_when: The charge doesn't have a tax code from a more specific layer.
```
The wording just felt a little clunky.

    name: Provider default
    value: No app mappings. Falls back to the provider's default behavior.
  - default: Credit grant default
    applies_to: Credit purchase charges (credit grants)
    used_when: The credit purchase has no explicit tax code.
    name: Nontaxable
    value: "Stripe: `txcd_00000000`"
{% endtable %}

> <!--vale on-->

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<!--vale on-->

To view your default and user-created tax codes, navigate to **Metering & Billing** > **Settings** and click the **Tax Codes** tab.

To apply tax codes other than the default, navigate to the rate card on any plan, add-on, or customer subscription, and expand the advanced settings for the pricing model. 
For a complete tutorial, see [Create and apply {{site.metering_and_billing}} tax codes](/how-to/configure-metering-and-billing-tax-codes/).
```

Reviewer 2: This felt missing because I landed on this page and had no idea where to go to configure these.

Author: Good callout - I agree.

## Fallback chain

> {{site.metering_and_billing}} uses a fallback chain when determining which tax code to apply, in the following order of priority:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{site.metering_and_billing}} uses a fallback chain to determine which tax code to apply, in the following order of priority:
```
